Hello and welcome,
My name is William, today we're going to have a look at some source code for 
the Capacity Scaling algorithm.

In the previous video, I explained what Capacity Scaling is, how it works
and what it is good for, so I highly recommend watching that video before 
proceeding, there will be a link in the description. All the source code for 
this can be found on Github at github.com slash william fiset slash algorithms

Alright, here we are in the source code written in Java, I have laid out some
instructions here in the header in case you wanted to get the code, play around
with it and run it yourself.

Scrolling down, you can see the familiar Edge class, this class is used to
represent an edge that connects two nodes and has a certain capacity.

A little further down is also the NetworkFlowSolverBase which acts as a template
for all the different flow algorithms we have been implementing. I already 
covered how these two classes work in previous videos linked below, so please 
have a look at those before continuing. 

However, the part we're really interested in is a new class I have defined below
which is the CapacityScalingSolver. The CapacityScalingSolver is an 
implementation of the NetworkFlowSolver base which uses capacity scaling to find
the maximum flow.

You will notice that I have defined a new instance variable in this class called
delta. This is the same delta from the slides that we will be using as a 
parameter to determine whether an edge should be accepted or rejected based on
its remaining capacity relative to the value of delta.

The constructor for this class simply calls the super class's constructor to
initialize the flow graph and allocate some memory.

Just below is the addEdge method which is particularly interesting. For capacity
scaling to work, we need to know the value of the edge with the largest capacity.
Since we need to construct the flow graph do to anything interesting, we can 
capture the largest capacity value as we build the graph. The implementation of
the addEdge method is defined in the NetworkSolverBase, we don't want to change
this functionality, so inside the addEdge method we are overriding here what I 
do is I call the addEdge method in the super class and initialize delta to be
the largest capacity we encounter -- simple enough.

Inside the solve method, which gets called to compute the maximum flow, the 
first thing we do is initialize delta to be the largest power of 2 less than or
equal to the largest capacity. One way to do this is to find the floor of the 
base 2 logarithm and then raise that value to the power of 2, or in Java you can
use the builtin highest one bit function to do that but in a more efficient way.
  Following that, we repeatedly find augmenting paths from source to sink using
only edges with a remaining capacity >= delta. Half delta every time we become 
unable to find an augmenting path from source to sink until the graph is 
saturated.
  Inside the inner loop, mark all nodes as unvisited, do a DFS and sum over the 
bottleneck values to calculate the maximum flow. Repeatedly does this until 
delta is equal to zero.

Now let's have a look at the DFS method. The dfs method takes two arguments, the
current node, and the minimum flow found along the path so far. When we 
initially call the method, the source node is the current node and flow is set 
to infinity. This method performs a DFS recursively, and we know we can stop
searching when we have reached the sink node t.

If the current node is not the sink node, then visit the current node and reach
iterate through all the neighbors of the current node. Here's the catch though,
we cannot take the edge going to the neighboring node if the remaining capacity
of that edge is smaller than delta, because this violates the capacity scaling
heuristic. Also ensure that the node we're going to has not already been visited
to avoid cycles.








